Hello everyone, welcome back to another episode of the Grand Prixquel Podcast where we discuss all things feeder series.
On today's episode we are going to be doing a quick season preview on British F4, which, by the time this episode comes out, should be starting next week.
Today's hosts are myself, Robin, Peter, and yq.
So, let's start off with just a quick introduction of what the series is.
So, it's an F4 series, so it's an entry-level series to single-seaters.
Most of the drivers are about 15 to 17 years old, as is normal with any F4 series.
What's different about British F4 compared to the other F4 series is that it's a really, really full calendar.
There's 10 race weekends and 3 races per race weekend, so it's 30 races total compared to, let's take Italian F4 for example,
it's only 7 weekends, which is 21 races.
So, that's 9 extra races for anyone competing in British F4.
So, it's a very full schedule.
And another, like, big difference that British F4 has compared to other F4 series is the points system.
Mainly for race 2, but we'll get to that in a second.
So, races 1 and 3 have F1 style points.
So, 25 points for whoever wins the race.
1 point for whoever's in P10.
And different to F1, you get 2 points for pole in race 1 and 3.
And you get 1 point for the fastest lap in each of the 3 races.
As for race 2, race 2 is a reverse grid race.
You reverse the top 12 of quali.
So, you get 15 points for P1, down to 1 point for P8, which is different to the F1 sprint format.
And also, the best thing about these reverse grid races is that you get points per position that you've gained from your starting position.
So, for every overtake you make, basically, you get 1 point.
And your maximum is 10 points.
So, you can't get more than 10 points even if you overtake more than 10 people.
This is, like, truly an innovation for formula racing, especially in the feeder series.
Because previously with other series that we've looked at, the true skills of the drivers weren't reflected in how many points they gain.
Like, I think this was said previously in another episode.
But you could start in, like, P28 and then you can move up to P18 and still not get any points.
However, with this new points system, more drivers who are good at overtaking, however might have had bad luck on quali, can have the time to shine.
So, in terms of the weekend format, Friday is generally just reserved for practice, then we have one qualifying session, which acts as the grid for all three races.
So, for race 1, the grid is set by the first fastest times in qualifying.
And then for race 2, these top 12 are then reversed.
And for race 3, the grid is determined based on its second fastest times in quali, which is a feature we see quite commonly in Formula 4 series.
The winner of the British F4 Championship gets 12 super license points, 10 sets of Pirelli tyres to use for testing in their next championship, and a day at Williams, and half a day of sim experience at Mercedes.
There is also the Challenge Cup, introduced last season for drivers who do less than seven pre-selected rounds of the championship, which is for the drivers who can't commit or afford to do all 10 rounds because of prior agreements or they have other championships that they're doing.
And they can win up to £25,000 of prize money, which goes into another season of British F4.
So, British F4 has seen quite a few notable former champions, the most notable one being Lando Norris, current McLaren F1 driver, who won it back in 2015.
But quite a few other names, if you watch the series, have also won it, such as Luke Browning in 2020, Alex Dunne in 2022, Louis Sharp in 2023, and of course, last year's champion, Fionn McLaughlin.
So, I think now it's a good time to just go into the teams we have.
So, one of the main teams we have is Rodin Motorsport, and one of the drivers is Dries Van Langendonck, who is probably the championship favourite, and he's a McLaren junior.
I mean, did you see him during Formula Winter Series?
If he doesn't win the championship, I think something's gone wrong.
I mean, he's extremely dominant in the Formula Winter Series. I mean, nine race wins and only 15 races, and he won at three races early.
And even in British F4, we've seen him be at the front. In his debut weekend, just turned 15, shows up, takes pole, wins the race. I mean, that's a statement of anything.
That kid's going places.
And he's always had the pace. I mean, we've seen karting. He has many karting championships, such as the 2025 WSK Super Master Series. He's also the FIA European Champion and World Champion. Basically, a lot of karting titles. So, this guy has mad potential. And is also a McLaren junior.
We talked a bit about his Formula Winter Series title in a bit more detail in another episode if you want to go listen to the Formula Winter Series recap episode.
It's quite funny, the idea of a McLaren junior going to go to Williams and Mercedes.
Um, like, if Dries wins the championship, which is very likely, they'll give those, like, same experiences to the next person who's not associated with an F1 team.
But I think it's very funny to imagine a McLaren junior having sim experience with Mercedes and Williams.
He’s going to go spy on them.
Exactly.
And next up for Rodin Motorsport, we have Alfie Slater, who, of course, is the brother of Freddie Slater, who's been incredibly dominant in other F4 series.
Of course you're going to talk about Freddie Slater.
I mean, it's his brother. I need to mention him.
So, he most recently also competed in the Formula Winter Series, finishing seventh with three podiums.
And, uh, last year he did a full season in Ginetta Juniors.
While he was fifth in the standings, he was only four points behind P3 and he missed the last round.
So, there is something there, I think.
Maybe not necessarily a title challenger, but can maybe get a few podiums, maybe a win here and there.
Definitely will be challenging for wins, I think.
Yeah, and podiums easily. I mean, and Rodin is one of the top teams.
He has the machinery and everything.
And I feel like his fellow teammate, Ethan Lennon, would be similar.
He had a stronger Formula Winter Series, finishing in P5 with five podiums and T-poles.
However, his Ginetta Junior campaign last year is significantly weaker, as he finished P13.
Let's just hope those two don't crash into each other again.
That is quite something. I mean, teammates crashing into.
At least for them, Rodin still won the team's championship.
If that had cost them the title.
And the last driver for Rodin has not been announced yet.
And personally, I have no clue who it could be.
We have a couple of drivers who have been announced to be doing British F4,
but have not been confirmed for a team yet.
But we don't know if they're actually going to be doing the full season or not.
So, we'll find out.
At the time of recording, we don't know who the last Rodin driver is.
Maybe they'll get announced as soon as this episode is out.
Who knows?
Just after we finish recording, we find out.
Exactly.
Moving on to team Hitech, who were the runner-ups for the team's championship last year.
By 1.5 points, apparently.
We have Scott Linblom, who's a Red Bull junior and competed in this year's UAE4 and placed P7 with two podiums and one pole.
And he was also part of the 2025 campaign with Ginetta Juniors and was P4 in the standings.
I think he's a really fun driver to watch.
He has really good racecraft.
Yeah, I mean, during UAE4, when he qualified really, really low down, I think he got disqualified from one of those qualifying sessions.
But his overtakes were really nice to see.
And it was very nice to see him climb up through a field of, like, what, 40 drivers?
Yeah, we saw him multiple times able to make his way up through the field.
He did Saudi F4 last year as well, didn't he?
Yeah, and he was very much on the pace there as well.
He didn't complete the full season there.
I think he missed the last round or two.
But he still had consistently good pace.
So I think he's very much maybe a dark horse for the title, maybe.
And he's certainly going to be challenging for wins and podiums.
Alongside him, we have a fellow Red Bull junior, Chiara Battig,
who also was competing in Formula Winter Series, finishing P17 with one podium.
She should be doing the entire British F4 campaign, which is really nice to see.
And I think a lot of people do believe she'll be the highest performing female driver.
And, like, I agree, yeah.
I do really hope she does well.
She has quite a lot of potential.
I hope she benefits a lot from those reverse grid races with the overtake points.
And that's the nice thing about women competing in British F4 specifically,
is that even if they're qualifying, like, around P12-ish, like we saw in, um, what's it called?
Eurocup 4 Spanish Winter Championship with Luna Fluxá.
She was constantly around P12-ish.
So she was always near the top during the reverse grid races.
So I think if Chiara ends up around, like, the same level, it'll be really nice to see her, like, hopefully maintain the high positions during the reverse grid races.
Yeah, and we saw her improve across Formula Winter Series.
Like, you could see the improvement between, like, the first race and the last race.
So I'm hoping she's able to continue that improvement and that upper trajectory during the full British F4 season.
And it’s also that she is in a good team that can give her the machinery she needs to be able to perform.
Yeah, I think it's very important that, um, she's in a good team.
Because you see a lot of women competing in these championships, but they're, they're not with the best teams.
So you can't really judge how well they're doing.
But seeing Chiara in a good team, I think is really important.
Alongside her we also have Adam Al Azhari, who's now entering his third season of F4 experience.
I think three seasons of F4 is kind of crazy.
But, um, anyways.
He did UAE4 earlier this year.
He ended up in P11.
Um, he did British F4 last season.
And he finished P6 with three wins and six podiums.
And he did Spanish F4 the season before that.
So, really, he's kind of collecting all of the major F4 series.
Maybe next year he should do Italian or something.
Yeah, I mean, certainly, again, I think he'll be one.
He's maybe not necessarily a title challenger.
But maybe somebody getting some podiums.
Maybe a win here and there.
Because we can't have DVL win all of the races.
As much as some of us would like that.
I think we do really hope to see him improve from his last season of British F4.
And hopefully he can move out of the F4 racing category.
There's, like, still more to come.
He has a lot of experience he's able to bring in.
Especially in an F4 series where some people are completely new.
Experience matters so much at this level.
And, uh, finally, completing the Hitech line-up.
As we do know their fourth driver, unlike at Rodin.
We have Theo Palmer, who was also in British F4 last year.
He finished 18th, although he did miss the first few races.
And he was also 15th in the Middle East earlier this year.
He did finish fourth in the rookie standings last year, though, in British F4.
So, hopefully we'll see a bit of an improvement on last year's P18.
Yeah, I think for him, realistically, maybe get a podium here and there.
Because, as I said, in F4, there's such an opportunity, given how much learning one does.
And fourth in the rookie's cup last year is promising.
So, just have to see how he does.
There are also, um, quite a few other notable drivers.
I feel like most notably for me, Alba Larson is going to be doing a partial campaign alongside F1 Academy.
She, of course, is associated with the Ferrari Junior Academy.
Although we don't know her team, so all we know, she could be the fourth Rodin driver.
Which would honestly be amazing to see.
I really hope she's at Rodin, just because Rodin's the best team.
And it would be really nice to see her perform there.
Yeah, as I said, with Triara.
We need to get these women into top seats to perform- to see how they do properly if they're in a low-order team.
But no, you're racing for P20.
It's incredibly hard to see.
And her team is also around the same place.
It's just a bit hard to judge.
Yeah, kind of like in UAE4 when she was competing there earlier this year.
She was kind of just, she was outperforming her teammates.
But that doesn't really say much when you're all in, like, the P20s.
And of course, you know, the more F4 experience one gets, the better.
So this will also, hopefully, help her F1 Academy campaign, just improving her racecraft and all of that.
So another notable driver we have is Ethan Jeff-Hall, who is a Mercedes junior.
I said this in the karting episode, but Mercedes has a lot of juniors in lower feeder series categories.
They have, I don't know how many karting drivers.
Then they have Jeff-Hall in British F4.
They have a couple drivers in other F4 series as well.
But anyways, so he did compete in British F4 last season.
He placed P5 with one win and six podiums.
And he was also the Ginetta Junior champion in 2024.
Again, let's see how well he does this season.
Let's see if he improves on his P5 from last year.
Hopefully, he should be able to challenge for wins and podiums, like a couple other drivers we mentioned.
The next up, this driver I'm personally quite excited to see is Kit Belofksy.
He was the Saudi Arabian F4 champion last year, and he's racing with Fortec Motorsport.
He's, you know, you should check out his social medias, Instagram, his TikTok.
Quite fun videos he has on there from his karting days.
And this is really how he built himself as a driver, because I don't think he has the best of budgets, as he's not competed in any winter series.
We see a lot of drivers generally doing maybe UAE4 or Formula Winter Series.
However, he's not done any of these, and the Saudi Arabian Championship was very much like a cheaper F4 series compared to others.
Wasn't Saudi F4 his, like, um, his single-seater debut?
Like, he was in karting before that, and he won the championship on his single-seater debut.
And he's also, he's quite good in the wet, and given that he's British F4, and it likes to rain in the UK, he may be able to- in for maybe a shock win somewhere.
He's not in the best of teams, which makes it a bit harder, but I'd like to see him do well.
Anything can happen.
Um, we're also excited to see, uh, Daniella Sutton, who's making her single-seater debut in Butterfly 4, with Chris Dittman Racing, and…
I've consulted our, um, resident females in motorsport, um, enthusiast, Alex, and he told me that she might be the F1 Academy wildcard for Silverstone, which would, which would be very nice, um, seeing these younger drivers, like, drivers who are just making their debut end up being the wildcards.
It's nicer than seeing, you know, much older drivers, like Shi Wei, for example, in Shanghai, because I think it's nicer to have these younger drivers get more opportunities in F1 Academy, and, you know, get more F4 experience, because like we said, F4 experience is very, very important, especially in your first year.
Speaking of, um, opportunities for women, we might see more female drivers step in for Zandvoort, like they did last year with Emma Felbermayr, Nina Gademan, Chloe Chong, and Esmee Kosterman.
Yeah, because, of course, Zandvoort is where both British F4 and F1 Academy work, and track time is so crucial at this level.
Um, so we have a couple other drivers that we quickly want to mention. We don't have a lot to say, but, um, there are certainly names to look out for. So we have Louis Wherrel, who was there for Saudi Arabia F4. He was, was he only there for the last round?
He was there for the last two rounds. He took a few wins. He wasn't there for the entire campaign, but he was, um, very quickly challenging Kit Belofksy, and if he had been there for the entire season, he probably would have fought for the title. But I think he's gonna be interesting to watch.
We also have, um, Tommy Harfield, who was P4 in the championship last year. And I think he's, again, just someone to kind of keep an eye out for. He may be able to get the odd win somewhere.
And, uh, the last driver, the last name I want to mention is George Proudford Nalder, who was only there for the last two rounds of Formula Winter Series, but he was very quickly on pace with a lot of the other drivers.
Um, so he competed in six races, scored points in five of them, and scored a podium in one of them. So again, another driver to look out for. Maybe he'll, we'll see the, maybe we'll see him up on the podium at some point. And yeah, I think that's everything for drivers.
I think those are all the drivers who we think are interesting. Of course, there are so many other drivers on the grid. If you think we missed anyone out, please do let us know.
Unfortunately, we can't go through every one, because we don't have the time for that.
Yeah, so, out of the calendar, out of the ten rounds, nine are in the UK, with Zandvoort being the exception. And we race, uh, at a range of UK circuits, such as Donington Park, Brands Hatch, Silverstone, Thruxton, Croft.
And even though we return to some places like Silverstone twice, it's on different layouts. So the first time it's the Grand Prix circuit, the second time it's the National circuit. So, very exciting tracks.
Uh, they're not supporting F1 this year like they were last year, right?
Yeah, no, but last year it was an exhibition race. It was not actually a points race they had at Silverstone. And they're generally supporting the British Touring Cars Championship, which also then leads us on how to watch it. So, if you're both in the UK, you can watch it on ITV. And everywhere else, you're able to watch it on the British F4 YouTube channel.
However, generally, typically, only races two and three are streamed.
Yeah, I was just looking at the YouTube channel just to see which rounds had race one streams. And it was literally just the, um, Zandvoort round and the, um, F1 support race Silverstone round.
Every other round last year was only race two and three that were streamed, which is kind of really annoying if you want to, like, keep up with the championship properly. But we'll live.
It's still, well, if you're still able to watch the, you know, the other 66% of races.
Yeah, um, if you're really dedicated, you could keep up with the live timings. I am not actually sure what the live timing website is.
If you're even more dedicated, go to every single round and watch it. It'll be true dedication.
Yeah, and then live stream it for us on, like, Instagram or something.
Just pitch up at a corner, get your camera and show us.
Make sure to bring an umbrella tho.
I think we're going to do some, I mean, I feel like we're all going to say the same person is going to win the championship.
Yeah, like I said earlier, if Dries Van Langendonck doesn't win the championship, I think something's gone terribly wrong.
If he doesn't, then kudos to whoever does manage to do so.
Because honestly, that's very impressive given, um, DVL's record.
Uh, what did you think for the team's championships, though?
Because I think both Rodin and Hitech have really good lineups.
Obviously, we don't know who the fourth Rodin driver is.
But considering last season, Rodin took the title by 1.5 points, I think it should be pretty close.
Yeah, I agree, because Hitech have quite a strong line-up as well.
And when you take DVL out of it, I feel like Hitech's line-up is probably actually slightly stronger, maybe, or equal.
Like, you know, like, if you take out a top driver, so that's Linblom for Hitech and DVL for Rodin,
the other drivers are all quite evenly matched, it feels like, I think.
So yeah, I guess we'll find out.
It'd be really nice to know who their fourth driver is.
Yeah, um, also keep an eye out on the Rookie Cup and all the rookies that are moving in from karting
to the brand new season of British F4.
Um, there's a lot of people that we haven't discussed, and who knows,
they might be the new championship winner or Rookie Cup champion.
Yeah, we have quite a few rookies, so I think the Rookie Championship is something to keep an eye out for as well.
Obviously, we're going to discuss all the rookies, but yeah, something to look out for.
Okay, so that's it for our British F4 preview.
If you have any comments, if you want to predict the champion,
if we missed a driver that you think was important to mention, please let us know.
Follow us on all our socials, TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter @grandprixquel.
Next episode should be a FREC, GB3, and GB4 preview,
because all three of those championships are starting the week after British F4 starts.
So if you're interested in learning about those, make sure to tune in next week.
And yeah, thank you for listening.